hey folks welcome to the October edition
sure oh yes based on they've suddenly
apparel in this call it is definitely
October the October edition of the ipfs
local offline collaboration special
interest group whatever this thing is
called where we talk about offline first
meets t web kinds of topics um so we're
happy to have everybody here and we have
a couple of people I think that haven't
been on this call before so if we can
just go around really quickly introduce
yourself and kind of what you work on
and why you're interested in this space
of making stuff work offline I can get
us started I'm Terry I currently work at
protocol labs and I am working on a
platform called proto school which
teaches decentralized web protocols
tries to keep it beginner friendly but I
got here by way of the offline first
community and the organizer of an event
called offline camp which we'll talk
about more in a minute and I've also
done stuff with couch TV and progressive
web apps in that the more traditional
side of cyberspace I will go this way on
my screen
Deitrick you're up hi everybody my name
is Dietrich Ayala I work at PL I'm
working on
I give fests in web browsers mostly and
interested in offline topics lately in
that world we've been talking about
things like offline co-hosting of
Wikipedia and some of the things that I
added a agenda item to talk about after
often
and light up
I worked PL on IP first in web browsers
maintaining browser extension and
recently working on embedded Jase ipfs
in brave without fail party software and
I really interested in making that side
of our technical stuff stuck supporting
like offline use cases which I believe I
will have some notes later cool now
David just came back and it moved
what is clockwise on my screen so
there's gonna have to start fresh and
invent something new
we're gonna go Yanis now
hello hi hello I'm Janice I am working
at UCL and I'm also an advisor on
protocol labs I have been working in the
area of mobile communications and
delayed alarm that works for almost
decade it's been very hot interest in my
list so I'm really interested to see
what is going on in terms of
developments we've got a few
proof-of-concept prototypes that are
working in this kind of mode integrating
some of IB FS like things but not quite
exactly
so yeah interested to hear what others
are working on where this is going and
awesome
David this year are you working today
for you to introduce yourself
insert pods here or you can type in
introduction and operate it if you want
to take one in the chat fields in the
meantime I will go to Michael
oh hi everybody from the Oregon forest
that I'm definitely in right now I'm
Michael burns I work at PL as well I
came from an open source I'm kind of
self posting background and have some
interest in like data sovereignty and so
the the offline first kind of mindset
meshes with that rather nicely so that's
my perspective on the world and Dominic
yes sure so I work at protocol during
labs particularly on Google ipfs and
what I do is I like to think about how
to integrate that with other systems so
like the operating system or maybe your
service or something like that and that
is something that I do day to day and I
like to come to these meetings because I
want to see what other people are doing
that kind of falls in line with you know
some of our values and the goals and
things like that so I look I like to see
what other people are doing and I also
want to see if there's any way that I
can help push that stuff along forward
so that's me awesome so the the key item
on our agenda today is to chat a little
bit about the stuff that we talked about
offline camp and hey he's here is your
is your audio working let's see yes
us about yourself sorry introduce
yourself okay I'm David full-stack
programmer I'm mainly used laravel and
view yes I am a starting with offline
technologies like coach DB and and other
ones
I'm just discovered they orbit DB and I
want to start learning and that's all
for now
awesome thank you
yes I muted thank you soon for that
hopeful pop-up reminder when I was noisy
tonight talking to all of you
I was hope there are a couple other
people who I was hoping to have shared
there there are insights today but they
had conflicts so we can certainly catch
up with them on our next call if they're
able to join us then but Michael and I
were both at offline camp which took
place the last weekend of September in
the great state of Oregon where Michael
hails from yes very fancy and the event
just for folks who haven't heard about
it before is focused on offline first
more broadly so making technology that
works in bad network conditions whether
that's intermittent or primarily just
offline sometimes it's about syncing
with couch TV and pouch TV and sometimes
it's about IOT and sometimes it's about
mesh networking for disaster recovery
there are a lot of different angles that
we see when people come to offline camps
I bring really cool stories from you
know healthcare in the developing world
to all kinds of stuff but on this call
we're here to talk about kind of the
stuff that crosses over between D web
specific stuff and that offline first so
kind of a subset of the things we talked
about at camp and I will just call out
that Michael and I each hit my goal
attended more than I did of these
sessions because I was running around
doing lots of logistics but um we this
is sort of an unconference format all
discussion based not presentations so we
were um nominating as a group what we
wanted to talk about and breaking into
smaller groups so we've each attended
some of the sessions over the course of
our time at camp and then we are working
on having folks who attended camp write
up some rays of most of those discussion
topics so if you follow our medium
publication which I have the link to in
the notes then you can stay tuned and
hopefully see a little bit more that
content as time goes on and if you see a
topic in one of those articles that
I think would be nice to surface on a
call and I'll chat about please feel
free to propose something this is all
audience proposed topics for these cause
so feel free to let me know but I
thought we could just kind of Michael if
you want to maybe start and share some
of the conversations that you found
particularly interesting or that stood
out to you and this doesn't need to be
just us sort of summarizing the
discussion I'd be very happy to have
other people kind of jump in and see
what what that sparks in this group yeah
so just to kind of emphasize this is my
first offline first camp and first kind
of introduction to that community so I
kind of went in white.i wide-eyed and
bushy tailed and as is true about that
conferences like there were is a pretty
small one Theory schedule so there's a
couple dozen people all of them kind of
view their own background their own
context of getting here all of them
crazy passionate about this stuff and so
we we quite literally just nerd it out
for hours a couple of really cool talks
we had do some highlights a
representative that works with homeless
trans troubled recently or frequent jail
inhabitants like the the rough edges of
people who are struggling in the New
York metro area came and talked about
tools they need the the kind of workflow
the kind of the whole new set of
challenges of kind of how do you teach
someone how to do a computer or use a
smartphone app when they're not
necessarily technically literate beyond
you know they know about the internet or
whatever but they also have like more
pressing things going on in their lives
they don't have lots of spare cash they
don't have necessarily a home or place
to keep like longings don't necessarily
trust all the Civic resources around
them etc etc those are really incredible
talk a good chunk of which got notes
and possibly recorded so I think we'll
be able to expand on some of that and I
won't just keep talking about it these
are two topics that were really really
interesting one was trying to find some
alignment around incentives of social
networks in particular the idea of
wouldn't it be great if there was some
kind of a karma incentive insert term
here for people who summarize the
context of something so often you'll get
on the internet and there's a scandal or
there's some hubbub going on and you
don't know what it is and you don't
necessarily want to dig into it but it
doesn't necessarily rise to the the New
York Times is gonna write an article
about it and so you can get the rundown
then it'd be great if there's a way of
rewarding people who can kind of
summarize give you some context on the
inner turmoil and and discussions of a
community without having to dig into
every person's back and forth a lot of
that in the context of Twitter and
secure scuttlebutt and then finally the
peer tech side I hope I'm not going too
long or too high level there's a great
discussion on a number of people worked
in the field in rural and disconnected
communities particularly in Africa and
so there was just an open design
discussion of okay how do you make a
chat application in in a disconnected
part of the world so pick your tech
stack what does that look like do you
choose existing things or using API is
is it mobile is it what do you call it
uh native and all the the scaling issues
and all the things that come of that but
this was a person had that problem
they're gonna leave camp and then go
start working on their new prototype and
they come up with a rough design of what
they wanted to do and it was an open
discussion of okay if you had to go
build a chat app for people who
potentially had feature phones in the
past but possibly not have no reliable
telecom connection but possibly have an
unreliable one
what does that look like what did that
text deck look like how do you deploy
updates how do you like get discovery
work all of those like ui/ux things that
you can't just go find on reddit or
after news and like click the link and
join might give a valid email address
and you'll be signed up right away just
a really interesting set of technical
challenges that open up so many
interesting doors but that need to be
addressed kind of on day one right you
have to get your design right before you
start committing to sending people and
installing features and all these things
because if you have to sign a new build
and distribute that and it's all on USB
stick updating every single client
becomes really problematic etc etc it
was a crazy good discussion I could
happily keep going but I suspect I I'm
talking too long so I will stop there
but a great high level and like diverse
range of topics I was really really
happy
zoom again tells me I'll share a couple
of quick thoughts and then we can circle
back and dive further into any of these
topics that people are interested to
hear a little more about yeah after
Michael and I actually remember more
about them one of the things that was
interesting to me is the person who
Michael mentioned who came in was
talking about the like the transient and
trans and troubled kind of folks in the
New York City area that person was in a
different discussion about about
developing world applications for iPhone
first and one of them it so far at
offline camp most of the people who come
to camp who are working pretty much
exclusively on applications that are
used in the developing world whether
that's healthcare etc are folks who are
based in Europe or the United States and
aren't really tied themselves to the
culture there so there was a lot of talk
about like how do you understand the
culture that you're building for enough
to build the right solution for them and
do you need to be hiring UX
professionals or user researchers who
are already there to eat it like you're
probably asking the question it's the
wrong way if you're not a member of that
community so they were expressing that
this is like this very specific cultural
group within New York and the cultural
group in the developing world situations
have that similar thing of the people
right now who are trying to build
solutions for them aren't the people who
quite understand the problems thoroughly
and it's it's very interesting to see
how that plays out I think that's
something we run into a lot enough at
first because for me the real life-like
day-to-day experience of wanting to
stuff to work while I'm offline is like
oh I'm on the subway it would it's
obnoxious that my game doesn't work
right now those kinds of things not
critical critical stuff whereas there
are a lot of folks who are suffering
from a lot more infrastructure issues
where we don't think about the chain
like I don't think about oh the power
went off and now there's no router and
then that caused like this trickle down
um of effects from an infrastructure
side so that's always one of the things
that's most interesting for me to hear
um and then as I said I didn't get into
a lot of discussions I was running
around so much but one of the ones that
I was in part of was about user
experience of offline first which
because of the nature of the group
turned out to be more about the user
experience of see web and I there was
this interesting parallel that came up
up where when I'm thinking in sort of a
traditional web sense about whether
you're offline or online I'm thinking of
either like online the network is
working I can go to all the websites or
I'm completely disconnected I might know
why like I turned my Wi-Fi off and my
cell doesn't have service or something
like that there's also a life I state
that people miss and it really affects
the way that you need to build an
application to use cache data first
before you try to get new stuff so your
device thinks it has a useful connection
but it doesn't and it keeps trying to
get the new information it won't load
cache data because it thinks it's
connected but it's not giving you
anything useful so that's kind of this
scale that I'm used to thinking about in
terms of what offline means and I'm used
to thinking about user patterns for like
okay your your data is safe locally but
it hasn't been connected kind of to the
cloud yet or to whatever the central
database is the shared database whatever
I mean thinking about messages for that
but in this conversation it really
became apparent that the whole concept
of like what it means to be offline or
what it means to be online is totally
different when you get into peer-to-peer
is it like is having one other peer with
you now your online is it about a number
of peers that you have available to you
is like the equivalent of your little
bars on your Wi-Fi symbol like what's
the what's the scale on which we're
judging connectedness in a peer-to-peer
kind of situation was an interesting
conversation
and there were some discussions about
like models like lakes connected by
little rivers and stuff like this that
people were trying to use to visualize
it but I will leave that to the author
of the summary to explain better because
that was only in for part of the
conversation but um that was interesting
that it felt like a whole different like
a whole different discussion about what
it means to be on and off line even
there even though there are certainly
some similar implications for how you
have to convey state maybe it's
different states that exist that you
have to convey so that was one of the
topics that was interesting to me what
of the things we've mentioned would
people like to hear more about or chat
more about or share ideas about
yeah Detrick I was listening to mr.
burns as so intently that I forgot to
take notes but I I do have questions I
was really interested in you know both
of both of you have talked about these
higher level use cases and how there's
like this spectrum of different
technologies we can use to address them
and I was wondering if like if there if
there were notes or if people kind of
like started to condense those into a
set of best practices or recommendations
for certain use cases for use case X
where you have partial connectivity or
dodgy connectivity or was there a
recommended architectural approach or a
set of things that people identified had
worked for them for things that are
fully offline or like that whole like
I'm on a I'm on a disconnected network
together with other disconnected people
seems to be a a common use case so
things like that what were the were the
conclusions at the end
there are notes and I will be
summarizing from memory but there we did
record all the stuff so we can dive a
little deeper some of the takeaways were
Bluetooth like doesn't work in a a
production-ready like host-to-host
all the there's a bluetooth i think
words no like service discovery or some
various subsets of the Bluetooth
protocol
which are generally is acknowledged by
this developers I have not used it
firsthand just didn't work so when we
were talking about designing a chat
stack it was essentially go Android only
and use whatever they have like a local
peer discovery API which uses like audio
tones outside of human perception and
then Bluetooth and then Wi-Fi direct as
a kind of cohesive tech spec Apple has a
similar thing which is same same but
different and incompatible and the idea
was just give up pick one platform and
go all in on that platform so things
like Wi-Fi and like ad hoc networks got
used but are super awkward you don't
want a central like have a Raspberry Pi
that becomes your router or whatever so
they're definitely pain points there
that didn't necessarily have answers so
much as workarounds I guess yeah I think
that was probably the the biggest
takeaway obviously there's lots of
CouchDB love a way of syncing states and
like once once the network side works
the software side seems simple but the
hardware side of like we have two
handsets that we want to share any form
of data with is like just above broken
so the biggest demo hopefully I'm not
like spoiling any big reveals on our
media blog the coolest demo shows are
good you'll make people want to read and
watch there we go
high level teaser a super cool person
gave a demo of you have two phones like
how do you get them to talk to each
other if you don't know their tech stack
you don't have an app install so with
the little local webpage which uses full
screen 2d barcodes on one screen and the
camera on the phone on the other screen
can you point about each other so the
screen that's showing barcodes flashes
maybe five a second ten a second
whatever and he essentially frames of
data which is checkable because of the
2d barcode and then a camera that just
parses all those of the library and it
is shocking how reliable a
cross-platform that is compared to the
other like service discovery mdns yada
yada yada tech pieces which like work in
demos or if you have the same platform
app but doesn't work if you have an old
Android and a brand new iPhone or some
some mix and metric that's it so
hopefully that's in the area of what
you're asking about the trick yeah I can
expand on that a little bit and I'm
actually gonna share my screen as part
of this just to show you that this
resource exists so as people have
written for the offline can't medium
publication I've done some categorizing
and some of it would get at the question
that you're asking so for example in the
left so this time then in that past but
we usually have a huge contingent of
folks who are really excited about how
it should be in pouch TV for mobile sync
so this could be as part of a
progressive web app for example so
certainly like that mobile sink thing if
you're dealing with a traditional web
app as opposed to decentralized that's a
pattern that you'll find pretty well
documented and then the use of service
workers as part of a PWA is well
documented a crop like PWA that term is
much better known than offline first and
so
progressive web apps and service orders
our pattern for traditional web apps
that are much easier to find information
on and I think you would on 70 web stuff
so there are clumps of articles here and
then there are some things here about UX
with a little discussion of design
patterns and how to think about so
here's for example how do you deal with
notifications when you're offline or
helping people troubleshoot in those
situations there is I would have to dig
to find it unless I put that unless I
managed to put the photo in here but
there's a company that made a poster
after one of these camps about like
design principles that they kind of it
was essentially a summary of the
discussion that we had at Camp it's
really cool let's see if I can hunt that
down we've had a lot of people talk
about developing world use cases and
there I think infrastructure is the
biggest thing that I in my everyday life
don't anticipate but the other piece
that's not exclusively related to this
but disaster recovery which could be
could obviously happen in the States as
well but I think a lot of folks in other
places have mesh networking situations
that they're using that work really well
for communicating you know when we have
a big disaster the phone lines go down
just from overuse it seems like so
there's that kind of stuff that you'll
find here so a few different there are a
few different kind of common themes that
come out like that I do think I feel
like there was an effort or at least the
suggestion of an effort to kind of
codify a bit more like what counts as
offline first what you know one of the
things I encountered um because the
maybe because the audience was saudi web
heavy was like hanging too much onto
this word but like the combination of
offline and first in that order
um i think there's a lot of
misperception about with
term means and as someone who has meant
that the team at neighborhoodie that
coined the term I can share just my
perspective on it which mine kind of
grows out from a progressive web app
perspective but it's not about being
able to use the thing offline the first
time that you see it like with a native
app with a where you'd have to go to the
App Store like with a PWA you're going
to have to be online once to get that
app get the kind of functionality
downloaded cache the stuff that's most
important and that's one of the
important things that comes up in some
of these conversations is it's your
responsibility as a developer to help
the end user conserve resources whether
that's space on their device or
bandwidth or whatever and it might be
that different people have different
resources available to them maybe one
thing is one resource is more expensive
to them than another so we've talked
about ideas like can you set a switch
where they can prioritize bandwidth or
prioritize battery or something like
that is it if you know how those things
get drained by your application so we
have ideas like that from a design
perspective but it's really like loading
cached resources first to put the user
experience first on those subsequent
visits is the way that I describe
offline first to people um there were a
lot of people at this event that prefer
the term local first at least one of
them said it's because offline has a
negative connotation in local doesn't um
I don't know how many maybe first like
random humans in the world's local might
have like nice kind neighborhood vibe I
don't know how many people in the world
think of local as on device which is the
more programming way to think of it and
then one of the other things you asked
Dietrich was about like this like a
bunch of people connected to each other
but not connected to the rest of the
world you will find some articles in the
medium publication from past events
about things like pirate boxes I don't
know if you've seen that technology
before or like there are some devices
that are meant to like here's your
little Internet in a box for your
smaller community so there's stuff like
that that's been talked about that's
definitely in
kind of deep web world for like just
making my own little thing so does that
help at all with your question yeah
Michael you got mine you just reminded
me this is probably even further away
but a really interesting problem I keep
coming up particularly in the designing
of chat app but just generally
interesting that there is so much
overlap between like the progressive web
app and the web development world and
offline first I would have thought like
native mobile developers who want to be
able to be offline first would be a more
natural matchup but you get some
interesting limitations like like weird
same origin policies if you are a web
app that is not a mobile app certain
api's aren't available to you you are
otherwise limited and further sandbox so
you get issues accessing all the cool
device features but kind of the
mentality and experience a lot of people
who are interested in offline first it's
coming from the web depth world and so
something like I know jazz or those
variants are more familiar than Kotlin
or Objective C and Swift or whatever so
one clearly Firefox OS should have taken
over the world and that would have solve
some problems but there's there's a
really interesting matchup and limit
there of motivated developers but where
the tech stack actually allows them to
go even you know regardless for the
actually the misalignment there I guess
there was a specific chat about when
would you not use the PWA so it's like
the distinctions between native and
which I don't remember you being in
Michael were you there with me and I
forgot you are you just heard about this
in a different different conversation so
it was like it seems like PWA would be
the way to go because you're because
it's so cross-platform so you're just
making the thing once and then it is
working in theory on many devices but
there were those little questions of
what is actually what what what do you
have access to you in terms of device
settings or
ferm a ssin about the location that
you're in I'm trying to remember there
was an interesting quirk go ahead I'm
sorry to interrupt you I'll add one more
note one of the bigger pain points is
like app distribution so if you like
Android you can sideload apps and if I
understand the process right those signs
of the apps can be built and distributed
by USB stick while like PWA apps are
limited as part of that same word and
stuff so I don't think you can tell side
load them the same way and so even if
you can get the tech stack working on
the web kind of native react whatever
that is it becomes untenable if you ship
1.0 to the field and 1.1 needs to happen
a week later and that's touching
hundreds of thousands of devices to
manually do the the side loading again
rather to be able to propagate it over a
network somehow real big pain points
that are gonna need to be addressed
somehow sorry quick question so if you
have this network of devices that they
connect with each other right the update
or the even the application itself why
can you not propagate it this way I'm
going from memory so I'm definitely
forgetting details if it's a native app
and side-loaded you can distribute that
app like a zip file and I believe
Android will handle it and be able to
let you install it normally if it's a
PWA
again I think it's the same version
issue but I could be confusing
conversations but there are handles
separate they I think it's tied to an
SSL cert so do you think you need to
make a web request - thank you - a DNS
record that has that cell cert with your
local phones
not going to a bit less it's jailbroken
and you've done a budget set up so in on
PWA world you need to authenticate
against the cloud to be able to pull
that down whereas a native app is a sign
bundle and so you can move that around
exactly if it's a sign but it's about
they don't anticipate absolutely the
majority of the developers though aren't
fans of native and they come from a
react world and want to use a PWA or a
web stack they don't want to learn
Kotlin or swift or whatever that and
then people with their apps may be a
threat solution on a technical level but
in terms of like friction getting
started they want to live in a PW a web
stack world and have the benefits of
data Diedrich there's a lot of nodding
you have anything to contribute to this
yeah so I mean we hit we hit this wall
at Firefox OS and and we had to
basically invent packaged apps which
were a zip file filled with your web app
and your manifest and then signed to be
able to get that that side load ability
and to be able to get away from that
same origin restriction the point which
the install flow and update flow happens
through that dedicated network
connection through a browser so in order
to achieve that ap Kanis that so much
the developing world I'm go up to the
corner get a SD card that's loaded with
300 apps just dump it on your phone
they're all pre-signed cetera or not as
often is the case as well that's how a
lot of times the side loading you're
throwing away a lot of those for those
privacy and security restrictions anyway
they so the authenticity isn't
necessarily guaranteed because it's a
binary that you've got from a strange SD
card and put on your device so there's a
little bit of like the mirage of
security there especially in the side
loading instances but the use case the
need of the use case tends to trump that
in the field so and the from the web
standpoint they've the entire model has
hinged every bit of trust in that same
origin policy and the ssl assert chains
and i
a lot of times to the detriment of
adoption in these types of offline use
cases it storage is a good example so
some of the constraints that you're
talking about around native versus web
are around storage even in JSI PFS we do
we basically build a local data store
inside of a webpage that is blown away
completely
if you hit stores quotas because we
don't want to ask for permission to have
more storage
so we've traded off the persistence of
that data for a perceived user
experience problem around having to ask
permission for something from a web page
so we've taken it without choice away
from the user in that case and that as a
side effect of the permissions model
that the web uses in order to determine
capability and and now that they're
leaning even further and further in to
that model and in terms of memory web
standards development I remembered the
thing I had forgotten about the
conversation about like when you would
use pwace versus native just thinking
about it we were originally assuming
that when you're using a native app you
know there are certain places in the
settings of your phone where you can go
and see like the data usage from a
specific app and you have a list of all
apps and we had been assuming that maybe
with a PWA which is really running in
web browsers or even though that's it in
from you but it would but it wouldn't
show as its own usage but somebody
during the session pulled it up and did
see the things they knew to be PWA is
coming up in that list which was
interesting so I'm not positive whether
that is universal or specific to the
kind of device that had that it was
treated that way that some so newer
Android devices I think from camera rich
version on show Chrome based PWA is that
the installed applications list come on
if you have any other browsers people be
raised they don't show
any other questions about some of the
topics that we threw out here
I would be curious Michael's head is
gone but I would be curious Michael if
you walked away with any ideas for like
gaps that ipfs could help fill or like
tweaks that could be made to ipfs that
would make it more useful for these
kinds of use cases so there have been
some tickets about this on my PFS repo
it's probably reasonable to say that
ipfs is not an offline first and I think
there'd be some advantages to trying to
do that how that skirts or addresses the
like same-origin PWA is a little blurry
to me but it seems like there's some
advantages there of like being able to
pin and resolve content you're an
offline therefore ipfs is a open book
sort of things when you sorry when you
say offline there you mean just not
connected to any peers or how would you
hmm
so in best there is a proper offline
mode so like don't make network
connections but even an effectively
offline where you are online you can't
connect to anybody the behavior is not
the same between those two modes even
though user experience should otherwise
be the same yeah yeah and then like most
of this has some technical the technical
side is not the hard part the UX is by
far the more tricky part of like
breaking while guard monopoly is having
an experience like secure scuttlebutt is
a very popular thing in some of these
conferences onboarding someone to secure
scuttlebutt is a non-trivial thing and
there's about two term they need to know
about and like gigs of data needs to be
processed between two users if like a
more seasoned user says hey let me join
you to my whatever scuttlebutt averse
and do all those things
so like the technical side is not there
but it is relatively close like you can
make it work with some issues of api
compatibility and stuff what is not
seemingly there is the UX and kind of
terminology and design language for what
it means to do that stuff
and then like you just need to be aware
of all this so that the user knows
oh it's failing because there's above
not it's failing because things online
it isn't or whatever so there there's
too much state that user needs to
maintain to be able to have a reasonable
experience using this tech like it is
not part of the phrase but like mom
friendly or like a tech illiterate
friendly though it totally could be like
all the pieces are there it does not
have not has not been built yet that way
yeah one of the things that came up in
that UX discussion was on a thing I call
the normal internet uh with you when
you're having a computer problem they're
often like the diagnosis tools they're
like okay try this did it work if not
this might be the problem and I think
people were people who are more familiar
with T web than me or saying okay well
it could this could be the thing that's
the problem it would be like oh you you
have 93 whatever is something that
doesn't mean anything to me as someone
who's new to do you have like you need
to take it one step past where you think
it isn't like what is the implication of
that what should I do next because of
whatever this random statistic is that
you're presenting to me that I don't
understand so is it that I need to okay
I don't have enough peers my peers don't
have the data and like I don't like
right now if I try to use a try to find
a tool that I know is at some length on
the Gateway and it's not there my best
troubleshooting is like going in slack
to my colleagues in saying can anybody
else get this thing I don't know how to
tell who's like whose fault it is that I
can't get the thing and so I think
there's a lot of just one a second like
vocabulary not just for offline first
applications for ipfs or do you web
stuff but for me the vocabulary for D
web stuff in general is very
inaccessible very hard very unfamiliar
it needs a lot of work to come down to
like normal human I don't mean English
as opposed to Spanish I mean English as
opposed to tech jargon um
it's that's one of the biggest things I
see um
that prevents me from just being super
excited about be web stuff it's like
it's not it's not accessible you can't
pawn board people if it's not accessible
so I understand how to get started we've
been having this same conversation in
how we kind of packaged up browser
related features for ipfs like there's a
lot of things that we can do that align
with with that that meet a lot of really
common offline or partial offline in
these cases but and some of the stuff
that Lytle has in the agenda you know as
a reflection of these conversations that
we've been having and from it from UX
standpoint like the work that we've done
so far and things like that people
companion or desktop are really orient
around i confess as a technology and
people who are I profess core
contributors or technical users but not
around the things that people need to do
if they want to save share publish read
those core use cases so when people are
looking for something that I want to be
able to save my competing pages offline
and share them they don't Google NTFS
they search share or save Wikipedia
right and so the idea having those use
cases first and foremost as an entry
point into that world and being oriented
around the needs of the people that that
wants to be able to do those things as
opposed to being the flipping it and
having technology versus like we have
right now
anything else on the camp subject or
shall we scoot on to one of our other
items is that when's the next one we
don't know we are not that far long II
and we have a where we we need more help
we have we need more humans involved to
make these things happen this is as we
emphasize a giant labor of love with
people's time getting pulled in
different directions so if anyone is
interested in helping to participate
that would be great and one need that
the community has in particular right
now is we have a lot of authors assigned
for these articles on medium and we
don't have enough people who have time
to cat herd and follow up with those
folks so that's one thing anybody
watching this if you'd like to volunteer
to be an official cat herder for the
medium publication please let me know
and I could give you all the training
and some experience yes but I will keep
you posted and there is I can add a link
in here there's a like a sign up thing
on type form where you can leave your
information so that we would be able to
reach out to you as soon as the next
event is scheduled and we also always
make an announcement in our medium
publication so subscribing to our medium
publication would be another way to
ensure that you've got notified when
this happen but you personally dietrich
i will make sure you know when yeah and
obviously i will tell people in the
school district do you want to jump over
to your topic quickly i don't know what
the length of your entitles topics is
I'm not totally unrelated actually it
might be a real short so I'm on the
technical advisory board for physicians
for Human Rights it's an organization
that does a lot of work in a lot of
different countries surround making sure
that people have access to middle care
and they work with governments and NGOs
and one of the projects that they have
right now is a project called meta
capped which is I initially just started
as a set of printable PDFs for
documenting when there's an intersection
between doctors in the field
that there needs to be an intersection
with a criminal justice system so a lot
of times these are things like sexual
abuses and things like that that are
happening the two countries where
they've kind of piloted this work if it
was gonna be thei Opia and they have now
developing and funding for an
application to be able to work to go to
record evidence from that needed to get
from doctors into the criminal justice
system in these countries and they are
very unique offline requirements for
this needs to be things like a lot of
times it needs to be encrypted a lot of
times it needs to be able to be passed
between multiple messengers without them
be able to see the contents necessarily
and it almost they almost all of the
time these are situations where internet
Access's it is not available in large
parts of an average and regular day
things like also in infrastructural
requirements like we're talking about
earlier things like not know power and
things like this very slow slow
connections if any connection so it's a
very interesting set of requirements and
I thought I would you know put this in
front of the offline first community
since there might be people who are both
maybe aligned with the values of the
organization such as human rights but
also interested in the technology as
well that's it Thanks thank you final
what do you have for us today some quick
updates and looking at the time I will
make them accept we can also give you
more time on a future meeting if you
want to go into any it's not designed to
be a very quick update because going
like you know the very first so items
are just shoutouts that ongoing work
which will land in companion soon the
first one is making web UI available in
offline environments so when you install
I will use brave as a good example
because in
if we have embedded jazz I'd give us
note you don't need to install and if a
party software so the idea is when you
install a profess companion you will
have web UI pre cached so it will work
in offline environment and also making
the initial onboarding experience much
more pleasant because it's already there
does not need to be loaded it's 22 Meg's
so it's the first initial load may take
time especially if your network is not
too fast the second item is ipfs
companion right now it's able to recover
from some broken links but there's
contributed PR which is very close to
landing in the next companion basically
the idea is that companion is already
identifying ipfs resources like content
addressed things on websites people run
their own public gateways some people
just use ipfs content addressing in
paths on their website the problem is
what happens if the Gateway goes offline
or DNS gets censored or stuff like that
browser like HTTP request will just fail
even though the content is still
available on ipfs network so companion
pretty soon we'll be able to recover
from those specific error codes when DNS
lookup fails when like there's a server
error or like content is blocked for
legal reasons there it will like
seamlessly with time to enable it by
default it will automatically try to
recover and open it from the public
gateway so it should work with our
gateway if user that is not running
click on node and if it's if they are
running then it will automatically get
redirected to local node so you will not
get blocked you will not get censored
and even if like the service called
curse of anthos link will no longer be
dead so that's coming soon I
probably will demo those things next
time we see each other I'll miss Cole
and finally I wanted just to mention
there's an experiment in MF s based
co-hosting so generally the idea is to
leverage existing KPIs namely EMFs
existing IP FS api's and try to model a
very simple protocol scheme and more
like a set of conventions for co-hosting
stuff without any third party
applications or new api's and
specifically to the discussion we had
before on this call coming from the use
case so if you want to house Wikipedia
Wikipedia is like six over six hundred
gigabytes English Inc with Wikipedia on
part when you unpacked it without videos
just text and pictures it's like 650
gigabytes in size so not everyone is
able to like house entire thing and if
people visit a website with like IP
first companion or other browser which
supports distributed protocols and how
that person can opt in to contributing
to co-hosting Wikipedia or to co-hosting
a part of Wikipedia so there's a
discussion about concept called I called
like lazy co-hosting so the idea is that
you could mark a website let's say
Wikipedia to be co-hosted and there
would be two modes like one would be
like the full copy but that requires a
lot of space and time to fetch it and
the lazy mode is you are contributing
you're co-hosting but only the parts you
already visited it's sort of already
built into ipfs the only missing piece
is keeping those blocks around like
pinning them or like implicitly pinning
them and that's what co-hosting spec is
basically providing a means of
formalizing a way to keep those blocks
around for the websites that you care
and we have like a very early draft of
the spec and eventually we want to
experiment
in what like internment you I look at
ways at the UX in activist companion and
things like that so I posted link there
and sort of like related link I dropped
related to discussions about like audio
based signaling and things like that
we have on in the lipid 2p notes repo
there's a issue where we're sort of like
a drop and maybe take a closer look at
some alternative discovery and transport
protocols I'm interesting especially for
those things that could be implemented
or work in web browsers so vasco looked
at the well web pluto spec is right now
and like we've sort of identified
missing pieces we also have like link to
audio signaling for WebRTC I believe we
someone mentioned that the few it's back
on this call so if you have any new
links over time just that's the place
when you can drop drop them and kinda
related to pwace is sign HTTP exchanges
and handle HTTP exchanges so sign HTTP
exchanges are for a specifically like
sign signing a specific request and make
it eat the couples from origin so you
can transport it by other means and load
it into Chrome and it will show the
proper origin so it's a like a way of
distributing stuff via sneakernet
without without worrying about the TLS
think that we would discuss it before
so chrome is planning to implement
bundles HTTP exchanges which is I
believe very relevant to pwace so you
could like bundle all the resources rub
them in into this bundle format and when
you load it in like mobile chrome or a
desktop Chrome it will look like it came
over HTTP from
what server but in fact that instead of
like HTTP over TLS the signature was a
part of the bundle and there's an issue
I dropped in the notes about like oh
where we are so far with experimentation
around signed and bundled HTTP exchanges
bundle exchanges are interesting cause
like signing is optional and ipfs sort
of like provides integrity guarantees
already so there's like an open space
for experimentation I believe I think
that's it those are my updates any
questions for later on so many maybe
next time
so speaking of next time I looked at the
calendar today we usually have this on
the third Wednesday of the month and I
realize that on the third Wednesday of
November no one from protocol out so to
be able to attend including me so I
would propose unless people know they
have conflicts that we do this one on
November 13th
instead of November 20th next month and
that keeps us away from both that
conflict and day before Thanksgiving so
if I don't hear any strong objections I
will scoop that on the calendar and as
always I I am create an issue for the
meeting and feel free to draw up ideas
and therefore topics you want to talk
about next time ladle if there's any of
this that you want to go into in more
detail we'd be happy to have you do that
and then we got a really cool note from
Nicolas pace who's doing some cool stuff
right now which is like he's not here
today so you will see what we have in
store for us next time but thank you
everyone for coming and keep an eye on
that medium publication we hope to have
more on this session summaries coming
out soon also people gave some quick
fashion talks some of them had to do
with the UM or offline first stuff and
some of them had to do it completely
random things but they're all really
cool and some of the folks would like to
share those videos with you and
some articles around them so those
things will also be in that publication
so keep an eye there and if you see a
topic there that strikes your fancy and
you want to dig into further you want to
propose for this call just let me know
you can try to make time for that thanks
everybody
okay bye